what's up everybody it's Johnny with
insane home fat loss com today I want to
talk about water retention in holding
water I'll briefly going to explain what
it is what can cause it and hopefully
shed some light on actually if you're
experiencing or not so sit back relax
and let's dive in so first let's talk
about exactly what water retention is
water retention where the technical term
is oedema is when the body holds on to
water either in the muscle tissue or
actually in the skin itself you can have
generalized water retention where your
body your whole entire body whole body
is holding water all over the place or
you can have a localized water retention
like maybe just your ankles are swelling
up so now let's talk about what causes
water retention there are a lot of
different things that can actually cause
water retention but to cover a few brief
ones first one be this body's reaction
the hot weather if you're dehydrated if
you're actually a female and you're kind
of around the menstrual cycle if your
body's hormones are changing a couple of
common causes are dehydration gravity
and what I mean by gravity is standing
or sitting for long periods of time
acclimating the very hot weather the
pill so for you females out there that
can actually cause you to hold water
same thing with hormones in relation to
the mental cycles females can hold water
around that time of month dietary
deficiencies medications and obviously
your diet all of those things can be
contributing factors to holding or
retaining water now let's talk about
some symptoms first swelling ankles
you've probably all experienced that
second is having the feeling of holding
water being very stiff and fatigue
weight fluctuations stiff joints and
then a very common one which is a very
telltale sign up holding water is
actually when you press on your skin and
your finger leaves an indent mark that's
a very telltale sign that you're holding
on the water and another symptom is
obviously having that bloated stomach
kind of distended belly so now that
we've talked about a couple causes and
we talked about some symptoms of holding
water let's talk about how you can
prevent it or hopefully help fix it so
the first thing you need to do is if
you're
seriously holding on the water and you
think you might have an issue is to go
see a doctor I'm not a doctor insane
home fat loss we're not doctors so I
would highly recommend if you think you
might have an issue with horny on water
there could be a very much bigger
underlying reason to why you're holding
on to retaining water versus just a diet
or something so i would highly recommend
to go consult a physician but if you
feel like you're healthy you don't feel
like anything's going wrong you know
maybe you just had a couple bad days of
eating bad food or maybe you just we're
traveling you had some air travel when
you might be holding on the water well
the best thing you can do is actually to
drink more water try and flush all that
out of your system another thing you can
do to help combat water retention is
even more vegetables eat more fiber and
also to eat more fruits a lot of these
will aid in digestion and hopefully help
flush the system out also try to stay
away from excesses amounts of caffeine
or excessive amounts of alcohol because
these will actually naturally dehydrate
you and then cause your body to
naturally hold on to more water so a big
reason why I wanted to bring up this
topic today is because I hear this term
holding on water I'm just holding some
water I hear that quite a bit now yeah I
hear from generally I hear from guys in
the gym that are saying oh you know I've
I look great I'm lean I'm super stretchy
I'm just I'm just holding a little water
no you're not you're actually holding on
to fat it's not water it's fat so that's
why I wanted to educate you all today to
just to make sure you guys understand
really what it means to hold water
versus what it means to not be as lean
as you think you are and I'm not here to
put people down or say hey you're not as
long as you're telling people you are I
just want you guys to understand that
you might not have reached your goal you
were playing on let's say your goal was
to be ten percent or under a body fat
and you're looking in the mirror you're
like oh I look good I've got to be ten
percent yeah I'm just let's just walk
the rest of it's just water weight no
it's not it's still body fat you haven't
reached a goal yet keep working hard
another cause of holding on the water is
eating a very high sodium diet try
cutting out that sodium or reducing it
so again I'm going to touch on this
briefly the best way to combat water
retention is to drink more water a very
common cause upholding on the water
retention is that dehydration your body
doesn't know what's going on it doesn't
know where all that where it's typical
water consumption is so it's like well
since it's a little bit of water i'm
going to get i'm going to hold on to it
so it's going to store it in your body
so in order to prevent that from
happening always be drinking always be
hydrating don't feed hydrate yourself
and my last point I'll make for y'all is
again the best way besides drink a lot
of water to combat any kind of water
retention eat a healthy well-balanced
meal plan eat your vegetables each of
proteins each of carbs eat your fats
don't add a bunch of sodium or a bunch
of condiments those are contributing
factors will make you hold water so and
again I hope you guys understand what
the differences between holding water as
well as it is not quite being to your
goal and maybe holding a little bit of
body fat so for more workouts nutrition
and tips on how to be like your boy Jay
check out insane home fat loss calm I'm
Johnny have a wonderful day
you